Total Points: 50

(x) “me” command (2 points): Create a command that lets the player see their current status, including their health and/or whatever other attributes you’ve added.

(x) bigger world (2 points): The game starts with four rooms. That is not enough for much to happen in. Make the world bigger and more interesting. Give descriptions to rooms that say more than just a room number.

(x) “inspect” command (2 points): Create a command that lets the player look at items. This should display the item description. The player should be able to look at both items they see in their current location and items in their inventory.

(x) limited inventory (2 points): Make objects you’re carrying have a size or weight, and put a limit on how much you can carry.

(x) “drop” command (2 points): Make it so that the player can drop items, so that their inventory doesn’t become unreasonably large.

(x) item stacking (2 points): Make the inventory display ‘(x2)’ if there are two identical items (and so on, if there are more), rather than listing the item name twice.

(x) introducing monsters during play (2 points): Make it so that over time new monsters appear in the world.

(x) “wait” command (2 points): In the game as it is, time passes only when you move to a new room. Make it so that you can type a command that just lets time pass. Or implement a trickier version: let the user type a number so they can wait for a number of turns with only one command entry.

(x) regeneration (2 points): Have the player regenerate in some way over time. The easiest thing is to make health increase a little each turn, but there are other things you could do as well.

(x) victory condition (3 points): Create a way for the player to win the game.

(x) random world (3 points): Make the world be generated in a random way when the program is run so that it’s somewhat different each time the game is played.

(x) more monsters (3 points): Create several different types of monsters. They should not just have different names, but really be different in important ways.

(x) command abbreviations (3 points): The typing needed to play a text adventure can get tedious. Usually games allow abbreviations. This could simply just be some short, alternate commands (“inv” instead of “inventory”, etc.) or, more ambitiously, you could accept any string that is the start of only one command. And/or you could allow items, monsters, and other things to be abbreviated in some consistent way.

(x) characters (4 points): Characters are neutral beings in the game that you can talk to and interact with. (The “talking to” can be a matter of picking one of several options of things to say from a list.) They should interact with you or the world in some way when you talk to them. This should be different than the “helper” above (that is, if you make a helper character, then you need another character to get credit for this option).

(x) saving the game (10 points) : Let a player choose to save their game to come back to later. This should create a file in the folder where the program is stored (or maybe in a “saved” subfolder of that folder) with a name specified by the user. On starting the program, the user should have the option to continue from the point at which they saved, instead of creating a new game.

(x) navigation (6 points)